# MODEL0912160005: Tomida2003_NFATfunctions_CalciumOscillation

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL0912160005.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL0912160005.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**NFAT functions as a working memory of Ca2+ signals in decoding Ca2+ oscillation.**   
Tomida T, Hirose K, Takizawa A, Shibasaki F, Iino M. _EMBO J_ 2003 Aug
1;22(15):3825-32 [12881417](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12881417) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Transcription by the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) is regulated
by the frequency of Ca(2+) oscillation. However, why and how Ca(2+)
oscillation regulates NFAT activity remain elusive. NFAT is dephosphorylated
by Ca(2+)-dependent phosphatase calcineurin and translocates from the
cytoplasm to the nucleus to initiate transcription. We analyzed the kinetics
of dephosphorylation and translocation of NFAT. We show that Ca(2+)-dependent
dephosphorylation proceeds rapidly, while the rephosphorylation and nuclear
transport of NFAT proceed slowly. Therefore, after brief Ca(2+) stimulation,
dephosphorylated NFAT has a lifetime of several minutes in the cytoplasm.
Thus, Ca(2+) oscillation induces a build-up of dephosphorylated NFAT in the
cytoplasm, allowing effective nuclear translocation, provided that the
oscillation interval is shorter than the lifetime of dephosphorylated NFAT. We
also show that Ca(2+) oscillation is more cost-effective in inducing the
translocation of NFAT than continuous Ca(2+) signaling. Thus, the lifetime of
dephosphorylated NFAT functions as a working memory of Ca(2+) signals and
enables the control of NFAT nuclear translocation by the frequency of Ca(2+)
oscillation at a reduced cost of Ca(2+) signaling.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Tomida T, Hirose K, Takizawa A, Shibasaki F, Iino
M. (2003) - version01** ](http://models.cellml.org/workspace/tomida_hirose_tak
izawa_shibasaki_iino_2003)

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


